All right, we gotta go quickly
refactor the update functions here.
So now we have to get a useDispatch
up here from react Redux.
So this is doing everything that
we need to, to read from it.
In fact, I think, if I'm not mistaken,
we could say npm run dev.
I think this will load,
it just won't update.
Yep, so you can see here,
now it says Seattle here.
But notice that we've run into the problem
again that I can't update this,
same problem.
There's nothing updating, right,
nothing's calling the reducers, right?
So now we have to go call a dispatch with
our actions to be able
to update the store.
Does that make sense?
Again, just maybe to walk
through it explicitly.
If I type into location,
right, that's going to update.
React then catches that event,
which says, something happened.
I'm going to re-render, so
it calls search params again and
it pulls location out here.
Well, what is location?
It's still the same that it was last
render, nothing updated the store.
So it remains Seattle,
Washington here, right?
So now we have to go write
the function that updates that.
And we're gonna do that with
something called useDispatch.
Okay, and then we're going to import
all of our action creators as well.
changeAnimal from changeAnimal,
import, changeBreed from changeBreed,
import, changeLocation.
I'm kinda wishing I had put
these all in the same file now.
[LAUGH] Import,
changeTheme from changeTheme, okay.
So now we have all of our
action creators here.
Here, underneath theme,
you can say const dispatch = useDispatch.
You don't have to give that anything.
This is just now a function that we
can now send actions into Redux.
Okay, and then we're just gonna replace
everything that we have here, or
sorry, here.
Instead of saying update location,
we're just gonna say dispatch.
And then inside of that, we're gonna
say changeLocation, To be that.
Right, so
this is gonna take our e.target.value,
which is whatever the value
of that location is.
It's going to pass that into our
changeLocation function here.
Which takes in a location and
returns a well-formed action, right?
It's going to pass that into Redux.
Redux is then going to call our route
reducer, right, this combineReducers.
It's then going to pass that
into the location reducer,
which is then going to read,
is this a load change location?
It is, and therefore,
it will update the location.
That's going to inform Redux,
hey, something changed.
Run through all of your subscriptions,
right,
which we created a subscription
here in search params.
This is going to change here.
And this is going to let React know,
hey, this component changed,
cuz it's state changed, and this will
cause a re-render of search param.
That's the whole circle.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
finish rounding these out.
So again, I'll just show you here how
you would have done this, otherwise.
You would have said, type, right?
You could have explicitly written
in here the shape of the action and
that would have been fine.
People do it that way.
This just reads better to me.
And then I don't have to remember then,
all of my action types, right?
I can put that into another file.
Okay, dispatch actually,
we can just do this,
and I can write them
both at the same time.
So I can say, dispatch,
changeAnimal, and that animal is
going to be e.target.value.
I think I need another parenthesis there.
Now why don't I, notice,
I had two function calls there.
But now I just have two different
things subscribing to changeAnimal.
It's actually only going to
dispatch one changeAnimal.
I don't have to explicitly
dispatch an empty thing for
breed because breed is already
listening for that change.
So that's another nice thing about Redux,
is you can these kind of dependencies work
themselves out to be better code, I think.
Instead of having two hooks calls,
I have one action dispatch.
Okay, updateBreed
here, same thing.
We're just gonna say,
dispatch(changeBreed(e.target.value)),
okay?
And theme here, same business,
dispatch(changeTheme(e.target.value)).
Cool.
So, I will say, this is so
much nicer than it used to be.
React Redux and didn't support hooks for
a while, and so you had to
do some really awkward finessing to
get everything to work together.
With the latest version of React Redux,
this is very pleasant to use.
After I refactor this
from the old version,
of course to the new version, of course.
It's like, yeah,
I could probably use Redux again now,
this is actually kind of nice.
Okay, so
now you should be able to type in here and
say, Salt Lake City, and
I can change cat to be that.
This is all still working again, right?
So everything's still working
as we think it is, yeah.
>> Why create dispatch instead
of using useDispatch directly?
>> So the question is,
why is this API the way it is?
Well, it's a hook, right?
And so,
you don't wanna variably call hooks.
In fact, that you can't call
a hook in an action, or, sorry,
in an event listener, because it's
not in a react-function body, right?
That's the only time you can use hooks.
So it's just giving you a contextual
function that you're able to call from
anywhere.
In other words, it's a necessary technical
constraint, due to how hooks work.
Cool, other questions?
All right.
One more thing.
We have to go make it so
that if we're on this page,
notice that this button is not updating,
right?
You're actually seeing green,
which is the default context.
So I'm gonna show you how to quickly
do this with a class component,
which you're gonna see
this is far less pleasant.
So, head over to Details.js and
we wanna be able to read our theme here.
So first of all,
delete your theme context.
We're not doing that anymore, and
we're going to import
connect from react-redux.
Okay, theme context is gone, that's fine.
We're gonna get rid of
theme context here So
the theme consumer and
all that stuff, we're dumping that.
And then we'll repopulate this
theme here in just a second.
This will actually end up
being this.props.theme, okay?
Now what I would actually do [LAUGH]
if this was me, I would just say
const theme = use selector and
I would actually just do it here.
Doing this exact same pattern that we do
with use params, that would totally work.
We'd have no problems.
You could even do useDispatch and
pass the dispatch and
you would just pass it
in as a prop to details.
And that would be 100%
the best way to do this.
I'm gonna show you the old way to
do it because you'll probably run
into this code.
Okay, so we're gonna write
a function called mapStateToProps.
This is gonna be a function
that takes in theme,
And it returns an object theme.
So, just to clarify that
kind of dense syntax here,
this is basically just a function
that takes in props and it returns,
theme: props.theme.
This right here, returns this, and
the reason why you do it this way,
as opposed to just returning the object
directly is we want just theme, right?
It's a subscription, right?
So we're letting it know,
if theme changes, then give me back theme.
That's what that is.
Okay, I'll leave that in there so
you can look at that.
Then we're gonna make a new component
here called ReduxWrappedDetails.
So, const ReduxWrappedDetails =
connect(mapStateToProps)(Details).
Okay, so now we've, I know this is weird.
It's a function that returns a function.
So we're calling this, this right here,
what I've highlighted returns a function,
which this then invokes.
I know it's a strange API,
this was just really common
back in earlier days of React.
This ends up with a component that
looks like this, ReduxWrappedDetails.
And then here in WrappedDetails,
we'll return ReduxWrappedDetails,
like that.
If you're looking at me like,
why the hell are we doing this?
I didn't want to either, but
you needed to know that.
[LAUGH] One, I wanted you to know how
much better it got with the Hooks API.
And two, again, if you're going into
a job where they have a lot of Redux and
a lot of old Redux,
you're gonna see this everywhere.
So it's good for
you to recognize how this used to be.
Okay, so basically, what's happening
here is we created this function here,
mapStateToProps.
This grabs theme out of the store, okay?
And then that's going to pass that
into ReduxWrappedDetails, right?
So now this component here is
having theme being passed into it
as a prop from Redux, right?
Okay, and then from here,
we're passing that down into here.
So now, here, this.props.theme
will be coming from Redux.
Now we're not doing mapDispatchToProps,
but that's how you would do.
There's another thing that you could do
here that will allow you to basically
dispatch actions as well to Redux.
We just don't have to do that
in this particular component.
But now if you refresh the page here,
we'll make this Peru and
we'll go look at Luna,
and you can see here,
this is the correct color.
Okay.
Any questions?
This is it by the way,
this is all the code that we're
going to write here for Redux.
I'm gonna show you the big payoff of like,
okay, but the cool part of using Redux.
Is RxJS similar to Redux?
Let's go with no, they're
fundamentally very different things,
they just happen to be
spelled fairly similarly.
There's plenty of cool stuff on
Observables and RxJS on front of Masters.
Is Joffers' course the newest
thing in that, Mark?
>> Steve Kinney's.
>> Steve Kinney's, okay, so
check out Steve Kinney's course on RxJS.
So a question from Muhammad is,
how do we get data to the store?
The only way to get data to
the store is through actions.
That's the point is it's like a front
gateway into your data that has
to go through a reducer and
there's no other way to mess with it.
And that's very intentional and
it's a very good thing.
And another question is, would I rather
do this with Context, absolutely.
Yeah, this would be way
easier to do with Context.
As you saw, we refactored from
Context to Redux, and for
this particular use case,
Redux is just 10 billion times overkill.